Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will build out the front end for the new campus post type.
Let's begin by editing the campus link up in the header to point towards the all campus archive screen.
So in order to make that edit, let's jump into our text editor and open up header of our theme folder.
Here's the header navigation.
Here we see the campus link, so let's just adjust the HSF.
So remove the placeholder hash tag and then drop into P and let's echo out, get post type archive link.
And the name of the post type is campus.
And then in terms of making the link light up yellow, when we are on a campus page, all we need to
do is target the opening elai element, dropping BHP and say only if and then parentheses for the if
condition, only if I get post type and that's a function.
So it gets its own set of parentheses only if that returns value of campus.
Only if that is the case do we want to add a sixth class.
So we would echo out a bit of text, single quotes, and then within there we say class equals double
quotes for the class name, current menu item.
OK, let's go ahead and save that now if I test out that link up in the header.
You'll notice that the screen is empty and up in the tab title bar, we see Page not found.
Now, we've been through this before.
You know that whenever you register a new post type, you're probably going to need to clear or rebuild.
WordPress is permalink structure.
So let's jump into the admin, go down into settings, permalink, click, save changes to rebuild the
permalink structure.
And then if we go back to the front end and now click on campuses up in the header.
Cool.
So we see downtown east and downtown west.
So these are the posts that we would hope to see, except this is not the formatting that we want when
it comes to campuses.
We want to create an interactive Google map with pins for each location.
So in other words, we need to use a custom template for this screen.
Now, at the moment, this is being powered by archive.
So if we want a unique template just for campuses, we can go into our text editor.
And in the theme folder, let's create a brand new file.
And let's name this new file archive, dash campus dot BHP.
Just as a quick test, you can say hello, one, two, three.
Just to confirm that, yes, we are editing the right file for this URL, and in order to save ourselves
a lot of typing, why don't we use Archive Dasch program as a starting place?
So let's jump in to archive program and just highlight the entire file and copy it into our clipboard.
And then back in our brand new file piece that in let's scroll up to the top and let's just customize
things to make sense for campuses.
So for the page banner, the title should be maybe our campuses.
And for the subtitle, Why don't we say we have several conveniently located campuses.
Give that to save.
And now we can work on customizing this template, right, because instead of just a simple text based
list of the campuses, we want to create a map with pins for each post or location.
Now, back in our text editor at the moment, you can see that we're outputting the permalink and title
for each post.
But now the question becomes, how can we access the latitude and longitude or the address of each post?
Well, check this out right after the title and then a semicolon.
Let's create a variable and we can name it whatever we want.
Let's call it map location and let's set it to equal the results of a function named get field.
And then within the parentheses, we just pass in the name of the custom field that we are interested
in.
Now, remember, in a previous lesson when we created this advanced custom fields for the map, you
might not remember the field name that we gave it, but to refresh your memory, we gave it a name of
map, underscore location.
And just to make this code a bit more readable, why don't we drop down to a new line right before map
location here?
OK, so so far we haven't output anything onto the screen.
We've just created a variable that stores the value of that custom field.
Now, before we worry about accessing the latitude and longitude of this field, why don't we first
just answer the question of what in the world lives inside the value for this field?
Right.
Is it a string of text?
Is it numbers?
Is it an array?
Is it an object?
What is it?
What is the data so defined that out?
What we can do is call the function named print underscore are and then let's just pass it the name
of that variable.
We named it map location.
OK, let's go ahead and save this, and then on the front end, we can see that right after the title
of each post, we have that information about the variable.
So it's an array.
The map custom fields is going to return an array to us and it stores things like the address, there's
the address.
And we see that it also has a property named Laerte for Latitude.
Here's the latitude, value and LNG for longitude.
Cool.
So back in our text editor, if, for example, we wanted to output the latitude for each item, we
could just look inside our variable map location and remember to look inside an array.
It's just square brackets.
And then we could say Laerte for latitude or LNG for longitude.
So just as a test, we could echo this out and be sure to add a semicolon at the end of that statement.
Cool, so we successfully access the longitude for each item, but we don't actually want to display
it like this in plain text to the visitors of our website.
Instead, we want to output the latitude and longitude in a structure that JavaScript can easily access.
Right, because it's JavaScript that's going to communicate with the Google Maps service.
So let's jump back into our text editor and let's clean this up a bit.
In fact, let's just delete all of this and get a clean slate.
So let's just delete from the opening line list item to the closing line list item.
And instead let's create an opening and closing div tag.
And on the opening div tag, let's give it a data attribute of data dash lat for latitude and let's
set that to equal X just as a placeholder for now.
And then let's give it another data attribute of data LNG for longitude.
And let's also set that to a temporary placeholder.
And let's also give this div a class of marker.
This way our JavaScript can easily find this element.
OK, so now we've structured things so that JavaScript can easily access the latitude and longitude
properties.
Now we just need to output the actual values here instead of X and X.
So maybe up here while we are still in P mode right underneath the the post line, why don't we create
a variable that stores the map field data just like we did a moment ago so we could name this whatever
we want, but let's call it map location and set it to equal get field.
And the name of the custom field was map location.
So we've got this variable now let's just actually output the latitude and longitude values.
So let's remove this placeholder X drop in to P and let's say echo out map location.
That's the name of our variable.
Let's look inside the array with square brackets and get the latitude value and then let's do the same
thing for longitude.
So get rid of the placeholder, go into P within the P tags, let's echo out map location, look inside
it for longitude.
OK, now just a moment ago we had a list item for each post instead of a div.
So that would make sense that we wrapped all of that in unordered list, opening tag enclosing tag.
But now that we've got a div why don't we change this instead of an unordered list.
Let's open it up before the while loop with a div that has a class of Akef map.
There's nothing magical about this name.
It's just for a bit of txt styling and it also will give our JavaScript something to hook on to.
And let's update the closing tag.
So instead of an unordered list, let's change it to a closing div tag.
OK, now let's save this.
And if we check out the front end, we don't see it yet because we haven't implemented any JavaScript.
But if you right.
Click on this and choose inspect.
Here's the wrapper div for the class of Akef map and if you inspect inside it, cool.
We see it did for each campus post or in this case each map marker or pin and they each have data attributes
with the exact latitude and longitude values go from here.
Now we just need to implement a tiny bit of JavaScript to use all of that data to construct an interactive
Google map.
Now, luckily, Google will do most of the heavy lifting for us.
So the first step is not for you and I to write a bunch of JavaScript.
Our first step is to just load in or pull in a JavaScript file that lives on the Google servers that
they created.
So in WordPress, when you want to load a JavaScript file on the front end, what you want to do is
go into your theme folders, functions, dot, p, p.
And if we scroll down a bit, way back towards the beginning of the course, we created this function
named university files and within it, this is where we loaded our success in JavaScript files.
So on this line, WP on Q script, this was an example of how to load a JavaScript file.
Now that's what we want to do again now.
So to save ourselves a bit of typing, why don't we just copy and paste and duplicate this line, so
copy it into our clipboard and then right above it, just paste it in again and then we can just edit
this line of code to pull in the Google Maps script from the Google server.
So WP on Q script, the first argument is the name that we get to make up to kind of label the script.
So let's change this to maybe Google map.
The next argument is the location that points towards the file so we can delete.
All of this all the way to the comma, right, because that's the argument, and instead we want to
point out onto the Internet out on the Google server.
So let's begin with a pair of single quotes.
And then within those we could begin with HTTP or.
Yes, but certain Web hosts and certain browsers will throw an error message.
If you're not on a secure connection and you try to load assets from a secure connection.
So instead we can just begin the address with Eglash and then the you are able to point towards Google
server is maps, dot Google APIs, dot com slash maps, slash, API slash just for JavaScript and then
questionmark key equals.
And then this is where you paste in your Google Maps API key.
After you paste in your value, then we no longer need this array of dependencies to have any values.
So instead of an actual array we can just have null meaning.
This JavaScript doesn't depend on any other JavaScript files.
Version 1.0.
That's fine.
We can just make up a version number.
And true to indicate that we want to load this JavaScript file down towards the very bottom of our HTML
instead of up in the head section.
OK, so let's go ahead and save that and we can test things out to make sure that it's working by refreshing
the front end of our website.
And then if we view the page source.
And then scroll down to the bottom, actually need to scroll up a little bit, but here we see a few
script tags and here we see the Google Maps you URL.
So if you click on it and it successfully opens a new tab with a bunch of code, that means that we're
in business so we can go ahead and close that.
Let's close this view source and move on to the next step.
So we've loaded the JavaScript that lives on Google servers.
Now we just need to write a little bit of JavaScript on our end to basically feed our latitude and longitude
values into the Google Maps script.
Now, I've actually already prepared the code for us.
Let me show you where to look for it.
So in our theme folder, let me close out of these open files in our theme folder.
Let's look inside our S.R. see your source folder, and then let's look inside this sub folder named
Modules.
And let's jump into the file named Google Map J.S. So I've already created this file for us down here.
We can see that the code is going to find any div that has a class of marker.
Right.
And those were the elements with the data attributes for latitude and longitude.
So then all of this code, if we scroll down, it's just going to pass on the latitude and longitude
onto the Google map.
Now, if you're wondering where all of this code came from or how I knew to write this code, well,
I actually did not write this code from scratch.
You'll remember that we're using the plug in named Advanced Custom Fields.
So I just Googled for the official advanced custom fields website there, documentation.
And they have a page on how to work with the Google map custom field.
And this plugin has great documentation.
So this page basically describes the steps that we've been going through.
And most importantly, if we keep scrolling down here, we can see a bunch of JavaScript code to look
for elements with a class of marker and then work with their latitude and longitude.
Right.
So this is where I got the JavaScript from.
But long story short, we're not going to go over this line by line and learn how it works, because
I don't feel like that's a very great learning experience.
This is really boring boilerplate code because we're just working with Google Maps API.
But don't worry, we've got tons of educational JavaScript content remaining in the course.
For example, when we create our live search results functionality, we will be going through that JavaScript
line by line, concept by concept.
It will be educational with plenty of learning experiences, hopefully a few aha moments.
But when it comes to this boring Google Maps code, we're kind of just going to gloss right over it.
So we've got this file named Google Map in our modules folder.
Let me close out of that.
But what we need to do now is if we jump into our index file that lives in our Sarsae folder.
So open up index just with me.
This is our main file.
This is sort of the recipe file for our JavaScript.
This pulls in all of the individual ingredients and then mixes them all together in one big bundled
file.
So what I want us to do now is import or include in the Google Maps module into this main file.
So right here we've got this comment named our modules or classes.
We're already loading in the mobile menu code and the slideshow code for the home page.
So let's just go ahead and add a new line and let's import in the Google map code.
We could name it whatever we want.
Why don't we call it Google Map and then we import it from quotes to give it a string location period
slash to look in the current folder and then let's dig into the modules folder.
And then the file name was Google Map Gorgias.
But in this case, we don't need to include the dot j.s..
OK, so we just imported a class that we named Google Map.
Now we just want to instantiate a new object using that class.
So down here, let's say CONSED, let's create a Google map.
Notice this time it's lowercase because this is just an object that's being created from this class
or blueprint.
So Google map equals a new instance of our Google Map class.
If none of this makes sense right now, that's OK.
Don't worry about it, because again, once we get to the live search results portion of the course,
we can take the time to really understand in depth how all of this works.
For now, though, let's go ahead and save this file.
But when we save the file in order to have anything actually happen, remember, we need to have our
command line running our NPM run start command.
So be sure to have this command up and running.
I'll press enter and remember, that's watching our JavaScript files for changes.
So if.
You save a change to this file now it's actually going to rebundle all of this up into the appropriate
files that will live in the build folder.
OK, so now if we go back to the front end of our website and refresh, you might need to perform a
hard refresh.
But here we have it, an interactive map with our two pins.
Here's our West campus and here's our east campus.
And visitors of the site can zoom in.
They can zoom out, they can drag around.
Cool.
Now, in our next lesson, we're going to learn how to set things up so that you can click on one of
the pins and see the name of our campus and even click on a link to go to the individual post for that
campus.
And then we will also set up the template file for single campus.
Should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.